Before diving into microservcies lets talk about earlier approach which was the monolith.

In an era ago all the applications used to be deployed as a single unit where all funcationality deployed together inside a single server, we call this approach as monolithic,
it had its pros and cons
pros - simper development and deployment for smaller teams and applications, fewer cross cutting concerns, better performance,etc.
cons - difficult to adpot new technologies,limited agility, single code base and difficult to maintain,no fault tolerance etc.

we have various forms of monolithic with names like single-process monolith,modular monolith,distributed monolith.

In a monolithic approach,developers work with a single code base,which is then packaged as a unified unit, such as an WAR/JAR file, and deployed onto a server which is supported by a single database.

This then is updated to The SOA(Service-Oriented Architecture)
-This approach was introducted to tackle challenbges of large, monolithic applications,its an architectural style that focuses on organizing softeare systems as a collection of loosely coupled, 
interoperable servieces it provides a way to design and develop large scale applications by decomposing them into smaller modular servies which can be independently developed, deployed and managed.

This eliminated the tight coupling of UI and Backend.
pros - resuability,better maintainability,high reliability,parallel development.
cons - complex management due to communication protocols ex SOAP, high investment costs due to vendor in middleware ex ESB, extra overload.

Which puts us in current state Microservices:-
Microservices are independently releasable services that are modeled around a business domain. A services encapsulates functionality and makes it accessible to other services via networks-you construct a more complex system from these building blocks,one microservices might represent.
Accounts,another Cards and other loans etc, but toger they might constitute an entire bank system.

pros - easy to develop,test and deploy,increased agility,ability to sclae horizontally,parallel development, modeled around a business domain
cons - complexity,infrastructure overhead,security concerns.

Define microservice
-> Microservices is an approach to developing a single application as a suite of small services,each running in its own process and communicating with lightweight mechanisms, built around bussiness copabilities and independently deployable by fully automated deployment machinery.



